[Music: ’Mosaic’]
Today is your first day, welcome!
We see a lot of different people here, but
I wanted to ask you if you have much experience with palliative care.
Have you ever worked somewhere where you
weren’t surprised that someone in your care passed away?
No, I haven’t, to be honest all I know
about palliative care is that it’s for people who are actively dying.
That’s a common misconception. Palliative
care can be provided to any persons with serious progressive illnesses such as cancer, lung, kidney and heart disease.
People who are living with a life-limiting
illness who may have many months or years left to live can benefit from palliative care by having their symptoms and concerns looked after during all phases of their illness.
I had no idea. I don’t even know what I
don’t know about palliative care.
It starts with what matters most for the
person with a life-limiting illness.
We aim to reduce suffering and improve the
quality of life.
It includes pain and symptom management,
psychological, social, emotional, spiritual and practical support and support for caregivers.
That’s a lot more than I thought. It must
take a big team to pull it off.
Palliative care can be provided in
combination with other treatment plans and is offered in a range of settings.
Palliative care teams can include doctors,
nurses, nurse practitioners, health care aides, pharmacists, social workers, occupational therapists, speech therapists, physiotherapists, psychologists, music therapists, grief counsellors, spiritual care providers and other professionals.
But some teams are small and mighty with
overlapping responsibilities.
That makes a lot of sense. I’m excited to
see how it all works.
You should also know that person- and
family-centred care is central to palliative care.
This means placing the person receiving
care, and their family, at the centre of decision making. It places their values and their wishes at the forefront of care plans.
I can see how that would be essential in
palliative care and in lots of different situations.
Thank you for taking me under your wing
and giving me a crash course on what palliative care is.